## bushel - a reconstruction of livejournal for the 2020s

**wip spec, if you dont know what this is, its probably not ready for you yet**

Bushel is an implementation of the classic ``webring'' of old times, when a
smallish group of people would collaborate to share content while maintaining
their own websites and online identities.

In a classic webring, each node would generate its own styled HTML site and
share data via RSS or Atom.  Every node that is consuming data has to parse the
Atom feeds, figure out the peer's encodings, and then turn those back into
datastructures for the local site.

Bushel instead provides a simpler distributed datamodel that is hopefully more
maintainable in the long term.  Bushel uses the [irmin] git database to
directly share filesystem based data structures across the webring. This avoids
having to roundtrip via XML, and allows direct sharing of typed versioned
datastructures across nodes owned by different people.  Examples of such
datastructures include blog posts, wiki entries, social media feeds, git
pushes, events and so on.  Every datastructure is versioned with migrations so
that older feeds can always be upgraded to newer feeds.

### Motivation

Working with open source communities in the modern world is a tremendous
undertaking due to the sheer number of channels and lines of communication we
have to deal with for even simple interactions.  A single feature might begin
life in an email thread on a mailing list, then migrate to several GitHub
issues, show up on Hacker News for some random criticism, be pushed to a git
repository or three, be released onto a package manager, get threads on a
Discourse forum, be published as a research paper, have some Jupyter notebooks
released as a tutorial, and then a video of a conference talk released.

The above is a pretty common example of _one_ person's workflow, but open
source rarely happens solo these days.  Instead, small groups of people
collaborate across these tasks, and this is where tracking the information flow
gets complex and manual across all the communication medium.

### Goals

Bushel is intended to provide a framework for:

- **individual** open source contributors to quickly write about their work,
  and mirror it to some of these communication mediums
- **groups** of contributors to share content via bidirectional
  links (e.g. release announcements or blog posts about work done together)
  with the ability to work in private if they desire
- **organisations** to track feature flows among bigger groups of individuals
  working together across many projects
- **projects** to pull together the contributions of individuals and
  credit them appropriately, while providing a coherent feature flow
  to others.

The authoring workflow is designed to require minimal work for each
of these users by:

- autogenerating scaffolding gathered from online sources and convert them
  into a markdown format ready for human editing
- providing convenient markdown shortcuts to reference other sources
  and projects in the webring database (e.g. `@avsm` or `@avsm/bushel`)
- letting humans quickly edit those autogenerated files from their
  perspective (e.g. a project might writeup a github release differently
  from an individual that is proud of a particular feature they worked on)
- ensuring all html endpoints are seamlessly version controlled like
  a wiki, e.g. so users reference either the latest version of a blog post
  or a particular revision.

TODO datamodel
TODO bidirectional links
TODO schema
